- [Instructor] The next step is to add the spring form tags
for the login page.
Let's go back to the IDE.
You already have the form tag library declaration done
before on the register page.
So we're going to pick it up from there.
Let's go to register.jsp.
If you go right at the top on line number two,
just going to take that line, copy,
go to login JSP, right at the top again,
and paste that.
So we have the form tag library of spring I will label now,
and we can convert our login form
for using the spring's form tag library tags.
So let's do that transformation quickly.
This will be form:form.
Those two attributes can be the same.
This will change to form input,
and instead of name we should be
attaching the path attribute.
Similarly, this one
for the password will change the same way
and this will become path.
At the end, let's close the form tag properly.
So there we go.
We've transformed the basic input HTML elements
with the spring tag libraries, form elements.
The next one is:
Add a custom exception class in hplus
for runtime exceptions.
Yes, so we're doing exception handling.
We're going to write our own custom exception class.
Let's go to the IDE,
and under com.test.hplus, let's make another package
for your exception classes.
And let's create a class here.
Let's call it ApplicationException.
And this will extend RuntimeException,
and we can write a small constructor here
which is going to take a message,
which is the error message.
And it's just going to give a call to the super constructor,
with that message.
So this is the core Java basics
of writing a custom exception class,
and making sure that the message is attached to it
so that it goes out the hierarchy
and you get the message wherever you want to use it.
So the custom exception class is now ready with us.
That's good.
Now let's go to the next one.
Use @ExceptionHandler for a method in LoginController.java
and simulate the exception.
So just to quickly give you
what we're trying to do here is,
let's go to IDE.
In our previous video we added a method
to find out if the user exists in our database.
So now in the login controller once the form gets submitted,
we're going to invoke that searchByName method.
It'll be good if we find a user;
however, if we don't,
then we are going to throw an exception.
That exception will be the one that we just created
and when that exception is thrown,
how is it handle, is what is a part of this demo.
So let's do that.
Let's go to LoginController and let's write a method here
for exception handling only.
And how will that look like?
It will look like public String
and you can just say handleException.
And what will this do?
Just put a small sys out saying,
"in exception handler",
let's spell everything right.
Okay, "in exception handler of Login Controller"
Perfect.
And, what are we going to do?
We're just going to return that error view name.
So we already have a JSP template
by this name under our JSP folder.
That's already done.
We have also disabled the whitelable error page provided
by Spring Boot, so that's also done.
So whenever an exception occurs in LoginController,
we're going to say that please go to this method
and go back to error page, trying to display something.
Right? Now,
it's not so simple to just write a method,
we also have to remember to annotate it
with this annotation, which is ExceptionHandler.
That's the crucial part of this method.
And then, what is the last thing?
We have to simulate the exception. That's right.
So let's come back to the IDE
and on line 20 inside the main login method
of our controller, we're going to say if
user was not found, so let's say if userwasnull,
then we will throw a new ApplicationException
and embeds a message saying "user not found".
Okay, now once that's done, understand one thing:
This exception when it gets thrown, from line 23,
it should come under this method.
Yes it will, because we annotated this
with that exception handler.
But there's another thing that we have to do.
We have to tell that this method is supposed
to be handling exceptions of this type.
So that can be specified by an argument
to the @ExceptionHandler annotation.
How is that done?
We just have to make sure
that you embed the name of the class.
That's all.
So now what we've said is:
Once this ApplicationException is thrown,
it will quickly come inside the handleException method,
because you're asking it to handle that ApplicationException
by annotating like this.
So it'll execute this
and then it'll go back to our error page.
Okay, so now the last step will be
to build and run the application.
So let's make a build of this.
Okay, it has started well.
Let's see if the flow works well now.
So, let's go to home.
Come to login.
I'm going to try adding credentials here
which do not exist in the database.
Some kind of credentials.
So when you say that,
there we go, now we have come to an error page.
And it says that okay, "the dementors have attacked,
"and Professor McGonagall is attending to it".
So this is our error page.
So what happened is that the exception occurred.
It went to our ExceptionHandler.
Let's go back to IDE and inspect that.
The exception occurred here,
then it went here.
How do we confirm that?
We did get the sys out printed on the console.
And then, it just went back to our error page.
So, all of the exceptions can be handled
in the same mannering or application
and that's how you do a graceful exit
so that you have a proper error message
displayed to the user,
so that it ends up providing an intuitive expedient
for your customers.